src/episodes/71-saloni-dattani.md, before:

---
title: Saloni Dattani on Malaria Vaccines and Missing Data in Global Health
audio: 
featuredImage: dattani-share.png
backgroundImage: malaria-bg-2.jpg
path: dattani
number: 71
date: 2023-10-19
---

[Saloni Dattani](https://twitter.com/salonium) is a Researcher at [Our World in Data](https://ourworldindata.org/), and a founder & editor at the online magazine [Works in Progress](https://worksinprogress.co/). She holds a PhD in psychiatric genetics from King's College London.

{% image "saloni-portrait.jpg" "Saloni Dattani" %}

In this episode we talk about:

* The history of malaria and attempts to eradicate it
* The role of [DDT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DDT#History) and insecticide spraying campaigns — and why they were scaled down
* [Why we didn’t get a malaria vaccine sooner](https://worksinprogress.co/issue/why-we-didnt-get-a-malaria-vaccine-sooner)
* What comes after vaccine discovery — rolling out the RTS,S vaccine
* New funding models to accelerate similar life-saving research, like vaccines for TB and HIV
* Why so much global health data is missing, and why that matters
* How the 'million deaths study' revealed that about 50,000 deaths per year from snakebites in India went uncounted by health agencies

## Saloni's recommended reading

* [Meet the microbiologist](https://asm.org/Podcasts/MTM) (podcast)
* [Eras in epedemiology](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Eras-Epidemiology-Evolution-Mervyn-Susser/dp/0195300661) by Mervyn Susser and Zena Stein (textbook)
* Our recommendation: [Scientific Discovery](https://www.scientificdiscovery.dev/) (Saloni's Substack)

## More resources

* [Why we didn’t get a malaria vaccine sooner](https://worksinprogress.co/issue/why-we-didnt-get-a-malaria-vaccine-sooner) (Saloni's article in Works in Progress Magazine)
* [The Pandemic Uncovered Ways to Speed Up Science](https://www.wired.com/story/covid-19-open-science-public-health-data/) in WIRED magazine
* [Missing Data In Global Health And Why It Matters | Saloni Dattani | EAGxCambridge 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ikx53I77NI8) (recorded talk)
* [What is an Emergency? The Case for Rapid Malaria Vaccination](https://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2023/10/what-is-an-emergency-the-case-of-rapid-malaria-vaccination.html) by Alex Tabarrock in Marginal Revolution
* [Will no one rid me of this turbulent pest?](https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/gjs3q83hA4giubaAw/will-no-one-rid-me-of-this-turbulent-pest) by Metacelsus (on the technical requirements for a mosquito gene drive)
## Transcript

*Coming soon!*

{% image "vaccine.jpg" "The RTS.S malaria vaccine" %}

Commit message:

Added audio link and corrections

src/episodes/71-saloni-dattani.md, after:

---
title: Saloni Dattani on Malaria Vaccines and Missing Data in Global Health
audio: https://pinecast.com/listen/9eef99f9-56b7-46b0-b2d6-9bf2a77dac47.mp3
featuredImage: dattani-share.png
backgroundImage: malaria-bg-2.jpg
path: dattani
number: 71
date: 2023-10-19
---

[Saloni Dattani](https://twitter.com/salonium) is a Researcher at [Our World in Data](https://ourworldindata.org/), and a founder & editor at the online magazine [Works in Progress](https://worksinprogress.co/). She holds a PhD in psychiatric genetics from King's College London.

{% image "saloni-portrait.jpg" "Saloni Dattani" %}

In this episode we talk about:

* The history of malaria and attempts to eradicate it
* The role of [DDT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DDT#History) and insecticide spraying campaigns — and why they were scaled down
* [Why we didn’t get a malaria vaccine sooner](https://worksinprogress.co/issue/why-we-didnt-get-a-malaria-vaccine-sooner)
* What comes after vaccine discovery — rolling out the RTS,S vaccine
* New funding models to accelerate similar life-saving research, like vaccines for TB and HIV
* Why so much global health data is missing, and why that matters
* How the 'million deaths study' revealed that about 50,000 deaths per year from snakebites in India went uncounted by health agencies

## Saloni's recommended reading

* [Meet the microbiologist](https://asm.org/Podcasts/MTM) (podcast)
* [Eras in epedemiology](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Eras-Epidemiology-Evolution-Mervyn-Susser/dp/0195300661) by Mervyn Susser and Zena Stein (textbook)
* Our recommendation: [Scientific Discovery](https://www.scientificdiscovery.dev/) (Saloni's Substack)

## More resources

* [Why we didn’t get a malaria vaccine sooner](https://worksinprogress.co/issue/why-we-didnt-get-a-malaria-vaccine-sooner) (Saloni's article in Works in Progress Magazine)
* [The Pandemic Uncovered Ways to Speed Up Science](https://www.wired.com/story/covid-19-open-science-public-health-data/) in WIRED magazine
* [Missing Data In Global Health And Why It Matters | Saloni Dattani | EAGxCambridge 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ikx53I77NI8) (recorded talk)
* [What is an Emergency? The Case for Rapid Malaria Vaccination](https://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2023/10/what-is-an-emergency-the-case-of-rapid-malaria-vaccination.html) by Alex Tabarrock in Marginal Revolution
* [Will no one rid me of this turbulent pest?](https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/gjs3q83hA4giubaAw/will-no-one-rid-me-of-this-turbulent-pest) by Metacelsus (on the technical requirements for a mosquito gene drive)
## Corrections

- The [*Cinchona* tree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cinchona) is not pronounced "kin-chona" but rather [/sɪŋˈkoʊnə/](http://ipa-reader.xyz/?text=s%C9%AA%C5%8B%CB%88ko%CA%8An%C9%99) or [/sɪnˈtʃoʊnə/](http://ipa-reader.xyz/?text=s%C9%AAn%CB%88t%CA%83o%CA%8An%C9%99), i.e. "syn-kona" or "syn-chona"
- "Sporozoite" is not pronounced with an -e as in "bee" sound at the end, but rather [/spɔːrəˈzəʊ.aɪts/](/spɔːrəˈzəʊ.aɪts/) or [/spɒrəˈzəʊ.ɪts/](/spɒrəˈzəʊ.ɪts/)[^1], i.e. "spore" – "oh" – "zo"-as-in-"Zoe" – "ites"-as-in-"nights" 

[^1]: ChatGPT generated these [IPA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Phonetic_Alphabet) words so they might not be entirely accurate!

## Transcript

*Coming soon!*

{% image "vaccine.jpg" "The RTS.S malaria vaccine" %}
